20/11/14 
===

- Conclusion: distance metrics are not discriminating!

- Fitness score in count ratio method:

	For each genome division, it defines the hm and ht SNPs and calculate a ratio hm/ht. 
	
	Then, it compares all the ratios obtained with the expected ratios by using the absolute Pearson's correlation coefficient that is _"a measure of the linear correlation (dependence) between two variables X_ (expected ratios) _and Y_ (permutation ratios), _giving a value between +1 and −1 inclusive, where 1 is total positive correlation, 0 is no correlation, and −1 is total negative correlation"._ In this case, as it is the aboslute correlation, we only have values oscillating between 1 and 0 (correlation or not).
	
	
	
	- 3D plot (density plot) that calculates the value of r in the Pearson correlation for a given genome lenght and a number of divisions. 
	
Genome size: 1 Mb-20 Mb

Divisions: 500-10,000

- Don't know which ratios I should  use to calculate the correlation. If I just shuffle the array of fragments, it generates a randome order and every time the value of r is different. I'm going to use a 10% shuffling of the original permutation to generate the ratios. 

21/11/14 
===

PMeth.adjacent_swap to generate the permutation that we can use to calculate the ratios 
fasta_perm = Swap.adjacent_swaps(dataset, size, pop_num, swap_num)
When using this method and the class MetricWork, the ratios cannot be calculated because it says permutation array is not ok. 


24/11/14 
===

I tried using the fasta_shuffle file as the permutation to calculate the ratio. 

- Try using the adjacent_swaps method to create the fasta_shuffle file when the genome is generated. 
- Fixed the number of divisions in a loop so we get all the fitness scores for one genome at once. Create a CSV file with the genome length, the number of divisions and the value of r. 
- Create 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19 genomes. __ Cannot create 17 and 19 Mb genomes because the Arabidopsis chromosome 4 I am using is smaller than that.__  I created the large genome using the whole chromosome 4 as in create_model_genome.rb (Realc4)
- Keep the number of fragments constant (changing the size). Around 1000 fragments so the number of swaps we have to do is constant too. 


Today:
Create 1-17 Mb genomes with 1/1000 heterozygous SNPs and run correlations.rb obtaining the CSV file to plot. 
Plottin: ggplot ('dataset', aes (Genome.length, Divisions, fill = Fitness)) + geom_tile() 