05/05/15
===
- Write  results to [qqplot.md](https://github.com/pilarcormo/SNP_distribution_method/blob/master/Results/qqplot.md).

- Change the threshold to select the contigs that are not going to be used in the analysis. Now, instead of defining a value beforehand (1, 2..), I've created a new command line argument to determine if the filtering step is going to be performed or not (1 or 0). If 1 is chosen, then 1/100 of the maximum ratio value is taken as a threshold. 


06/05/15
===

- Redefine the methods used to obtain the SNP positions and densities used to build the plots. Changes in SNPdist. Now, the ratio densities are calculated by adding a given position to the density array (10xratio at that position) times. 
- Improve rinruby plots (sizes, titles, k...). Instead of comparing the real density and the hypothetical density, I am just plotting the SNP density obtained after SDM and the qqplot. For the qqplot, the hm SNP distribution obtained after SDM is compared to an ideal normal distribution). For now, I am using the real normal distribution for each example, but ideally I have to change it to a general normal distribution with a standard deviation between 4 and 8 Mb. 
- After getting the results, I've realised that the threshold may not be restrictive enough. Now trying maximum/10. 



07-08/05/15 
===

- Use the standarised normal distribution (sd = 5 Mb) for all the reads used in SDM. 
- Make new rinruby plot to compare the real and the expected ratios. 
- Create new hash that includes the contig ids were the mutation is likely to be located and the positions (within the contig) where it might be. 
- Try different threshold values (max/10, max/4, max/5...). Cannot find a universal value that works for all the cases. 
- Delete the unuseful steps in mutation.rb and locate_mutation.rb
- Got new outputs for all the set of reads. Called _on to those in which I used a ratio threshold and _off to those in which all the contigs are used. 


####Next
 
- Give several output options after SDM?
- Write unit tests
- Write results for new threshold and plots
- Comment code