05/05/15
===
- Write  results to [qqplot.md](https://github.com/pilarcormo/SNP_distribution_method/blob/master/Results/qqplot.md).

- Change the threshold to select the contigs that are not going to be used in the analysis. Now, instead of defining a value beforehand (1, 2..), I've created a new command line argument to determine if the filtering step is going to be performed or not (1 or 0). If 1 is chosen, then 1/100 of the maximum ratio value is taken as a threshold. 


06/05/15
===

- Redefine the methods used to obtain the SNP positions and densities used to build the plots. Changes in SNPdist. Now, the ratio densities are calculated by adding a given position to the density array (10xratio at that position) times. 
- Improve rinruby plots (sizes, titles, k...). Instead of comparing the real density and the hypothetical density, I am just plotting the SNP density obtained after SDM and the qqplot. For the qqplot, the hm SNP distribution obtained after SDM is compared to an ideal normal distribution). For now, I am using the real normal distribution for each example, but ideally I have to change it to a general normal distribution with a standard deviation between 4 and 8 Mb. 
- After getting the results, I've realised that the threshold may not be restrictive enough. Now trying maximum/10. 



07-08/05/15 
===

- Use the standarised normal distribution (sd = 5 Mb) for all the reads used in SDM. 
- Make new rinruby plot to compare the real and the expected ratios. 
- Create new hash that includes the contig ids were the mutation is likely to be located and the positions (within the contig) where it might be. 
- Try different threshold values (max/10, max/4, max/5...). Cannot find a universal value that works for all the cases. 
- Delete the unuseful steps in mutation.rb and locate_mutation.rb
- Got new outputs for all the set of reads. Called _on to those in which I used a ratio threshold and _off to those in which all the contigs are used. 



11/05/15
===
- Check kind of distribution for ratios, both before and after SDM. Thinking of using the ratio as the second step for sorting. Looks like it correlates pretty well to a normal distribution. Create new txt files for ratios to plot them. Eventually (if it works), incorporate it in rinruby. 
- Start using [Rmarkdown](http://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/authoring_bibliographies_and_citations.html#specifying-a-bibliography) to incorporate R code in a markdown document. 
- Install and learn how to use BibTeX. Install [knitcitations](http://www.carlboettiger.info/2012/05/30/knitcitations.html) as an R package to directly import the references from the BibTeX library into R. 

15/05/15
===
- Create new model genomes with the hm SNP positions in the whole genome instead of focusing just in one chromosome to see if the normal distribution is kept and we can still rely on SDM. For this, I write fusion.rb that takes the SNP positions per chromosome without the centromere and adds to each position the length of the previous chromosome. This is not totally accurate, because I am not considering the centromere removal but it is useful to see if the normal distribution is kept and if only one hm peak appears when plotting. 
- Create model genome for BCF2 (chromosome 3 only)
- Write unit tests for manage_vcf. Haven't finished yet. 
- Write abstract for NoCaSS using Rmarkdown. 

####Next
 
- Give several output options after SDM?
- Write unit tests
- Write results for new threshold and plots
- Comment code


