18/05/15
===
- Give several output options after SDM - Use ratios for SDM sorting step  as they are expected to follow a normal disitrbution. Then, I have candidate contigs that high hm SNP density (SDM_hm) and other that have a high hm/ht ratio (SDM_ratio). If they overlap, I can say with certainty that the mutation is in those contigs. 
- Write unit tests

19-22/05/15
===
- Council week
- Starting writing [preprint](https://github.com/pilarcormo/Preprint). Prepare outline, abstract, title, start writing results. 
- Prepare figures and pipelines

26-27/05/15
===

- Write results for preprint. Divide 4 sections in 7 because they were very long. Aim for 200-300 words per section. 
- Plan the figures that go into the results and the additional ones. 


28/05/15
===

- Possible table for results - fragments identified by SDM and real mutations positions. Worked on this. To make results more clear to the reader, I take the contigs that are identified by SDM as candidates and look for the real SNP position in the whole chromosome length so that the results are comparable to the previous methods used to identify the causative mutations. By doing this, I found out that the estimation is much worst in out-crosses while it's almost perfect in  back-crosses. Although this was expected, in the way I'm doing it now I'm missing the mutation in some cases, so I might try to give more candidate SNPs when dealing with out-crosses. 

- Also, apparently results are far more accurate when I don't perform the pre-filtering step based on the ratios, so I might take out that part or explain that it's not necessary. Tried different thresholds (max/4 and max/10) but this was just useful when modelling the method to know if the hypothetical peak approached the real peak. 

- Work on section 7


29/05/15
===
- Give type of cross (back or out) as an argument, so the output after SDM is treated in a different way. Change SDM. 20 possible contigs are given as output if we specify we're working with out-cross reads because the number of SNPs per contig is larger and it is difficult for SDM to distinguish between them. Only 2 contigs are given as output in back-crosses and this was enough to have the causal mutation in those 2
- Work on results 



