15/12/14
=====

Write SNP_distribution_method.rb with [Carlos idea](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/calugo/GATOC/blob/master/Gatoc.ipynb). If we have have a file with the unordered contigs and a file with the number of hm and ht SNPs per contig and we know the SNPs are cluster around the causative mutation, we can order the contigs in the first file by taking the 2 lowest values of SNP frecuency and putting them at both ends of the distribution. By repeting this step, we will potentially get to the highest value = causative mutation = peak of the distribution.

I did it only for the hm SNPs. Tomorrow I'll do it for the ht SNPs. 

I need to adjust the distribution_plot script to plot my results. 

Potentially develop an algorithm that improves this method. 

(I tried to restart the old algorithm in the cluster by changing the restart option in the algorithm_test.rb. Don't know if it will work correctly.)

16/12/14
=====

The algorithm has restarted! 

Comment the SNP_distribution_method I have so far to make things more clear. 

Carlos had a new idea to look for the correct order of contigs  based on level sets.
 

17/12/14
=====

Work on SNP_distribution_method. I have the perm list with the "ordered" contigs but I'm trying to have the ordered fasta array, with  the length and the sequence, but I'm finding really dificult to relate both. 

Idea: As contigs do not have a constant length, for the method to be effective, instead of using the absolute number of SNPs, try to use a relative number by dividing the SNP density per contig by the number of nucleotides. 

Maybe this method can be used as a previous step to the GATOC. 

Interrupt running in the cluster. I will continue  after Christmas.




