22/10/14
========================================================

New 8 kb genome
-------
I realized I didn't change the script [small_test_genome.rb](https://github.com/pilarcormo/fragmented_genome_with_snps/blob/master/small_test_genome.rb) from 2000 to 8000 pb in the following line (ht_r) and I think it may alter the model genome generated. Therefore, I ran it again to see what happens. 

```
ruby 
hm_r = 'hm <- rnorm(50, 1000, 100)' 
ht_r = 'ht <- runif(50, 1, 8000)'  
hm, ht = ModelGenome::get_snps(hm_r, ht_r)
snp_pos = [hm, ht].flatten
```


New parameters for the algorithm
-------

Looking at the the distribution plots generated [yesterday](https://github.com/pilarcormo/small_genomes_SNPs/blob/master/Results.md), I think I have to readjust the parameters used to run the script because the distribution plots change to much for each new generation. I decreased all the parameters except for the number of generations. I used the 2 kb genome as input. 

<table>
  <tr><th>Fitness method</th><th>Number of generations</th><th>Population size</th><th>Select number</th><th>Chunk mutants</th><th>Swap mutants</th><th>Save</th><th>Random</th><th>Divisions (1000s)</th></tr>
  <tr> <td>max_ratio</td> <td>150</td> <td>20</td> <td>10</td> <td>7</td> <td>7</td> <td>5</td> <td>1</td> <td>1</td> </tr> 
<table/>
 


Next
-------
- **Stopping parameters**. The distribution plots are actually fine, the main peak gets close to the point where the causative mutation is (as is stated by the model distribution). The algorithm has to stopped when it reaches the generation in which it doesn't need to go further because it has found the causative mutation. 
- **Plot the fitness score and the distance vs the number of generations**. A fitness score is attributed to each permutation of the contig order, based on similarity of the hm to ht SNP ratio with an expected distribution (when the graph reaches the plateau, the algorithm should stopped). As for the distance (it means 'distance' between 2 arrays, how different they are). If the distance between permutations is always the same, it would mean that only a few contigs rearranged actually make a difference to "improve" the score --> **so, we actually never get to the correct contig order??**
- To do the plotting, I have to learn how to navigate through directories using Ruby. 



