12/01/15
====
HPC
---

The algorithm ran for a few generations and then it apparently stopped. There is no output message. I am trying to restart it again today. 

Work on the previous run (run1_A). 

New ordering method
---

After running my new ordering method and then the algorithm for just 1 generation I obtain this causal SNP location prediction: 

- Location of causal mutation in correctly ordered genome: 997
- Candidate SNP position in permutation: 1145


This was expected, as the contigs in the middle of the permutation that are the ones used to define the SNP position are more or less correctly located thanks to the new method. The problem is in the remaining contigs that are located towards the ends of the permutation. I try with a larger genome to see if this is reproducible. When using a 20 kb genome and 4 generations I got: 

- **Location of causal mutation in correctly ordered genome: 10028**

- **Candidate SNP position in permutation: 9864**


When I previously used the count_ratio method a few months ago I got:

- **Location of causal mutation in correctly ordered genome: 10028**
- **Candidate SNP position in permutation: 15026**

Cannot effectively used the algorithm with the new fasta array as the initial population because the initial population is an array of arrays and each subarray is created by permutating randomly (shuffle) the correctly ordered array. I'm using as start the new array instead of the correctly ordered but this is not accurate. 

13/01/15
====

HPC
---
- Algorithm restarted and running but printing out a lot of output in the shell due to a 'pp' I forgot to take out. 
HPC
- Rewrite the initial population to see if I can implement the new ordered file 

Initial population
---
Write new method called shuffled_ends to generate the initial populations. By using this method, the contigs that are in the middle of the permutation (and ideally well ordered after using my new ordering method) don't change their places, but the remaining contigs are clustered in groups and the groups get mixed randomly with the group located in the same position but on the other side of the bell-shaped SNP distribution. 

```
	def self.shuffle_ends(fasta)
		l = fasta.length/6
		l = l.to_i 
		master = fasta.each_slice(l).to_a
		new_array = []
		x = 0
		l.times do
			new_array = (master[x] << master[-(x+1)]).flatten!.shuffle 
			lu = new_array.each_slice(2).to_a
			master.delete_at(x)
			master.insert(x, lu[0])
			master.delete_at(-(x+1))
			master.insert(-(x+1), lu[1])
			new_array = []
			lu = []
			x =+ 1
		end
		return master.flatten! 
	end
end
```

14/01/15
====

HPC
---
The run 2_A from cluster is already finished (100 generations). I have analysed the results:

- Location of causal mutation in correctly ordered genome: 15187413

- 100gen -> Candidate SNP position in permutation: 14057511
- 10gen -> Candidate SNP position in permutation: 10471747

The location of the causal mutation is better with 100 generation than with 10 generations:

Build the distribution plots.

15/01/15
====
Waiting for the 200 generations run to finish 

Try to focus on the new method I wrote that divides the permutation in two halfs depending on the SNP density to rebuild the SNP distribution afterwards. Take into account that when using real genomes, the SNP density in the chromosomes that are far from the causal mutation will be noisy and not informative. So, if the location is more or less accurate using the new method, we could possibly delete the ends of the contig permutations and then, run the genetic algorithm if necessary to speed up the process. 

16/01/15
====
Test new SD method (SNP distribution method) with different genome sizes, contig sizes and SNP density. I am going to use the genomes I generated for the [correlation experiment in December](https://github.com/pilarcormo/Lab_book_TSL/blob/master/December%202014/1:2:3:4:5.12.14.md). 


