26/01/15
===

We've been using normal distributions for the homozygous SNP densities. Therefore, in all our model genomes the causative mutations was always in the middle of the genome. But, **what happens if the mutation is at the beginning or the end of the model genome? Will the SDM work in that case?** This method is effective when our causative mutation is in the middle of distribution, but not when it is moved towards the ends. 

Tried that with the whole chromosome 1 in the cluster while doing some trials with the 2kb genome in the shell. 

i = 1..5
<table>
 <tr><th>Name <th>Contig length</th> <th>Mean of rnorm distribution</th>
 <tr><th>chr1_C_i <th>10000 </th> <th>20000000</th>
 <tr><th>chr1_D_i <th>10000 </th> <th>30000000</th>
 <tr><th>chr1_E_i <th>10000 </th> <th>10000000</th>
   
</table>

Reduce number of hm SNPs while keeping the same the number of ht SNPs. 

Create new genomes from 1 to 15 Mb with this distributions:

```
hm_r = "hm <- rnorm(#{snp}, #{size/3}, #{snp*2})" 

ht_r = "ht <- runif(#{snp}, 1, #{size})"   
```

where the variable 'snp' is defined as 2 times the size of the whole genome divided by 1000. 

27/01/15
===

Repeat all the genomes from 1 to 15 Mb (- and A)because apparently the SNP distributions were not effectively calculated. 

Create distribution plots for all the genomes I've created and compare them. 

Results moving the causative mutation to the left:

<table>

<table>
 <tr><th>Genome length (Mb) <th>%</th> 
 
 <tr><th> 1 <th> 16.35</th> 
 <tr><th> 3 <th> 16.55 </th> 
 <tr><th> 5 <th> 16.60 </th> 
 <tr><th> 7 <th> 16.77 </th> 
 <tr><th> 9 <th> 16.67 </th> 
 <tr><th> 11 <th> 16.70</th> 
<tr><th> 13 <th>16.62  </th> 
<tr><th> 15 <th> 16.98 </th> 
    </table>
28/01/15
===

- Try to fix the problem with the deviation of the SNP identification when the mutation is slightly far from the centre. As we don't care about the order of contigs in the ends of the distribution, we can somehow remove the ends so that the distribution lies on the centre. 
- Look for real contig sizes for different sequencing technologies
- Use a more realistic SNP distribution (lower density) to see if the method works fine. 

29/01/15
===

Try to remove the ends of the ordered permutation to see if it approaches better the causative mutation. 
Incorporate the script to find the causal mutation as a new class so it is calculated directly in SDM. For each iteration (only when the shift is lower than a given value), I remove from the permutation the first and last items (try with more than 1 item for larger genomes, because only 1 change is not noticable in larger genomes)

30/01/15
===
Fail to understand the logic behind the peak finding. Try to plot the hm SNP density using R studio. Plan to use this plotting now to see if it works fine (only tried with the hm distribution, **I'll have to plot the ratio hm/ht now**). The removal of the ends of the ordered permutation seems to make the approximation even worst. Have to think of something else. 

######Next
- Plotting hm/ht ratio and SNP density. Rewrite R script potentially
- Try to remove unordered fragments at both ends. Using the ratios seems a smart approach
