9/03/15
===
- Using sampe to align the reads to see if it makes a difference, bwa-0.7.5 has a bug when using it, so I had to use the 0.6.2 version. 

-  Use FastQC to determine reads quality before alignment 

```
source fastqc-0.11.2 

bsub -q TSL-Test128 -o fastqc.txt "fastqc reads1.fq reads2.fq"
```

FastQC doesn't work. 

Use ```ln -s input_file other_input``` to change the name of the original input file making the whole pipeline reproducible. 

######Next
- Take centromeres into account when looking for candidate SNPs
- Write Rakefile to create a pipeline for SNP finding.
-  k parameter when plotting densities
-  Build histograms with absolute SNP densities
-  Build contigs from NGS reads and used them as starting point for SDM

10/03/15
===

FastQC seems to work now. We needed it downloaded locally as the one in the cluster software was not working on. Chris had it in his user folder. 

``` for s in $(ls BC.fg.reads?.fq); do bsub -q TSL-Test256 "/usr/users/sl/schudomc/FastQC/fastqc $s"; done ```

The quality of the reads looks ok. The only red crosses appeared in the **per base sequence content** and the **kmer content**. A yellow exclamation mark appears in the **overrepresented sequences** (two reads appear here). Apparently, we need to remove the reads with low count kmers because they can be sequencing errors. Also, the overrepresented sequences are adaptor or barcodes and need to be removed as well. For trimming, I am using [sickle](https://github.com/ucdavis-bioinformatics/sickle). 

```bsub -q TSL-Test128 -o sickle.txt "sickle pe -f BC.fg.reads1.fq -r BC.fg.reads2.fq -t illumina -o trimmed_BC.fg.reads1.fq -p trimmed_BC.fg.reads2.fq -s trimmed_singles.fastq -l 40"```

I'm giving a length threshold of 40 in order to avoid reads to be trimmed to much. After the trimming, the FastQC looks the same, so it has not improved the quality of the reads noticiable. Running again the sickle without the 40 length threshold to see if it makes a difference. It doesn't. I'm going to consider 

######Centromere positions in TAIR10
-  1: 15086545
-  2: 3608429
-  3: 14209452
-  4: 3956521
-  5: 11725524

##### Write Rakefile to create a pipeline for SNP finding.


12/03/15
===

Write density_hist.R to build histogram plots that show the absolute SNP density per chromowome and a density line over it. 

