16/03/15
===
- Use trimmomatic to trim the BCF2 reads. 
- Rakefile
- Use [Galvao, 2012 and Schneeberger, 2009](http://1001genomes.org/software/shoremap.html) reads to obtain new SNP densities. 
- [Galvao paper](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2012.04993.x/full#ss9). In this experiment, they induced by EMS a recessive mutation that causes a late flowering. They backcross the mutant with Ler and sequence. 
- Take the hm/ht ratio into account in SDM. Normally, in the centromere, there is high hm and ht SNP densities, so we'll obtain a low ratio in that area. 


######Change SDM 
- I have defined the ratios before running SDM and discarded the contigs with low hm/ht ratio before trying to order them based on the hm SNP density. It seems to work better. 

17/03/15
===

- Running Galvao alignments 
- Continue trimming BCF2 -> after removing first 10 bases (kmer content), FastQC still shows a wrong kmer content (with ~24 wrong bases at the beginning). It still appears as wrong after removing the 24 bp (+10 before) so I am leaving it as it was, because I am not making the reads shorter. 
- In SDM, create real hm and ht plots. Instead of using the original files for the hm and ht positions, I removed the positions where the ratio is low and try to build the plots with these new densities to have the shorten expected distributions. 
- Find out problem with rakefile in the cluster. As the task to do is to bsub the job in the cluster, once the submission is done, it moves to the next task even though the actual "job" is not finished. 

18/03/15
===

- To fix the rakefile problem in the hpc, I am trying to bsub the rakefile with all the tasks inside: 

```
source ruby-2.0.0
source bwa-0.7.5a
source samtools-1.0
source java-7u21
bsub -q TSL-Test256 -o output.txt "rake bam"
```

**It works!** I'm aligning again the Schneeberger reads. I have merged all the fq files into one:

```
cat 3_sequence.fq 4_sequence.fq 5_sequence.fq 6_sequence.fq 7_sequence.fq > Sch_reads.fq
```
And then, I run the rk.sh file that bsub the rakefile. 

```
desc "Align using bwa"
task :bwa do
	sh 'bwa mem TAIR10_chr_all.fas Sch_reads.fq > output.sam'
end

desc "Convert sam to bam file"
task :bam => ["bwa"] do
	sh 'samtools view -bS output.sam | samtools sort -m 30000000000 - output_sorted'
end

desc "Write pileup file and run VarScan"
task :pileup => ["bam"] do
	sh 'samtools mpileup -B -f TAIR10_chr_all.fas output_sorted.bam > BCF2.pileup | java -jar VarScan.v2.3.7.jar mpileup2snp'
end
```

- I realised I was creating the model genomes with the real SNP data using only the chromosome 1 to create the contigs. I am creating a new model genome for chromosome 4 with BCF2 data (BCF2_4_v2) and another for chromosome 2 (BCF2_2_v2). **The approximation in chromosome 4 (the one in which I expect to find the mutation) is more or less good but not perfect. I am trying to change the ratio threshold (now set to 2) to see if it improves/changes. It's good! 3% deviation. Replicate tomorrow.**

| Chromosome   | Length |
|---------------|---------------|
| Chromosome 1  | 30,427,671 bp |
| Chromosome 2  | 19,698,289 bp |
| Chromosome 3  | 23,459,830 bp |
| Chromosome 4  | 18,585,056 bp |
| Chromosome 5  | 26,975,502 bp |

19/03/15
===
- HPC storage limit reached! Compress .fq reads, delete some folders... 
- Try to run pileup and VarScan on Galvao bam file. 
- I have fixed some problems with SDM. Now, I am changing the ratio to see its influence on the prediction. 

20/03/15
===
- Got vcf files from Sch and Galvao reads. 

**Galvao** -> In the paper they said the found the mutation of interest in Chromosome 2 around  the 18 Mb, although in my density distribution I can only find some high hm density around the 12 Mb. 

**Sch** -> In the paper, they found the mutation in the chromosome 4 (between 16 and 17 Mb). With the vcf file I got from VarScan, the densities I obtained are too uniform, there are not interesting peaks. When plotting the absolute hm SNP densities, I realised that the number of SNPs is just too low to give a useful graph. 

**BCF2** -> In the paper they found the mutation in Chromosome 3, between 1 and 4 Mb. In my density plot, I cannot observe any high density in this area. 

- Write results. 