23/03/15
===

When I looked at the plots for **OCF2 (Galvao reads)**. I realised that they are identical to the BCF2 density distribution. So, there's been a mistake. Either the initial reads were the same (I checked them, and they seem different) or in one of the steps I took the wrong output to continue the analysis. I think it's the second because sam, pileup and vcf files are exactly the same. At least, I can probe with this that the rakefile I wrote for the pipeline works. 

I downloaded the OCF2 reads against (this time from the Shoremap 3 webpage) and I am repiting the alignment. 

Also, I found out that the results for BCF2 are explained in [this paper by Allen et al](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3772335/#SM3). They found the causative SNP at the beginning of chromosome 3  (microRNA pathway mutant). However, with my SNP data I don't see any high SNP density on this area of the genome. Therefore, I repeting the alignment following their protocol:

1. FastQC + Trimmomatic
2. **Bwa sampe (instead of bwa mem)**
3. Then, they use samtools mpileup tool to look for SNPs, I am going to use VarScan as I've been doing. 


Detect problem in SDM, the hash with the positions is not ok, as it only has 1 position, and not all the positions expected for a fragment. Change order of key and value in dic_pos_hm. Check tomorrow influence of this and adapt accordingly the rest of the code. 

24/03/15
===

- Still running bwa sampe for OC and BC F2 reads. 
- Trying to create a suitable vcf file from BCF2.bam to run NGM to see if I can get the same results they showed in Allen et al paper because I don't know how they get to the causative mutation in chromosome 3. Maybe I'm not analysing the output correctly or maybe there is a problem in the alingment or in the following steps.  
- Fix problem with hash in SDM. Now is running properly 
- Create new model genome for BCF2 with chromosome 3 (TAIR10-chr3). 


25/03/15
===
- Obtain results for OCF2 (Galvao reads) by using bwa mem.In the paper they found the mutation responsible for the late flowering in chromosome 2. However, with my vcf file I cannnot see any interesting SNP distribution around this area. In the paper they also say that **"Along chromosome 2, the increases or decreases in AFEs around the causal mutation were not monotonic, as expected in mapping populations for a single Mendelian trait. This suggests that there is a considerable difference between real allele frequencies and AFEs."** They calculated the Allele Frequency estimators (AFEs) that are the percentage of reads supporting one of the parental alleles. 
- Try with k values < 1 for OCF2 to see if I can identify interesting peaks.

#####Next

- Try plotting ratios instead of absolute densities as it's done in NGM. 