23/03/15
===

When I looked at the plots for **OCF2 (Galvao reads)**. I realised that they are identical to the BCF2 density distribution. So, there's been a mistake. Either the initial reads were the same (I checked them, and they seem different) or in one of the steps I took the wrong output to continue the analysis. I think it's the second because sam, pileup and vcf files are exactly the same. At least, I can probe with this that the rakefile I wrote for the pipeline works. 

I downloaded the OCF2 reads against (this time from the Shoremap 3 webpage) and I am repiting the alignment. 

Also, I found out that the results for BCF2 are explained in [this paper by Allen et al](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3772335/#SM3). They found the causative SNP at the beginning of chromosome 3  (microRNA pathway mutant). However, with my SNP data I don't see any high SNP density on this area of the genome. Therefore, I repeting the alignment following their protocol:

1. FastQC + Trimmomatic
2. **Bwa sampe (instead of bwa mem)**
3. Then, they use samtools mpileup tool to look for SNPs, I am going to use VarScan as I've been doing. 


Detect problem in SDM, the hash with the positions is not ok, as it only has 1 position, and not all the positions expected for a fragment. Change order of key and value in dic_pos_hm. Check tomorrow influence of this and adapt accordingly the rest of the code. 

24/03/15
===

- Still running bwa sampe for OC and BC F2 reads. 
- Trying to create a suitable vcf file from BCF2.bam to run NGM to see if I can get the same results they showed in Allen et al paper because I don't know how they get to the causative mutation in chromosome 3. Maybe I'm not analysing the output correctly or maybe there is a problem in the alingment or in the following steps.  
- Fix problem with hash in SDM. Now is running properly 
- Create new model genome for BCF2 with chromosome 3 (TAIR10-chr3). 


25/03/15
===
- Obtain results for OCF2 (Galvao reads) by using bwa mem.In the paper they found the mutation responsible for the late flowering in chromosome 2. However, with my vcf file I cannnot see any interesting SNP distribution around this area. In the paper they also say that **"Along chromosome 2, the increases or decreases in AFEs around the causal mutation were not monotonic, as expected in mapping populations for a single Mendelian trait. This suggests that there is a considerable difference between real allele frequencies and AFEs."** They calculated the Allele Frequency estimators (AFEs) that are the percentage of reads supporting one of the parental alleles. 
- Try with k values < 1 for OCF2 to see if I can identify interesting peaks.

#####Next

- Try plotting ratios instead of absolute densities as it's done in NGM. 


26/03/15
===

- Create csv file in SDM that takes the position in the first column  and the ratio hm/ht for that position in the second one. Use this file for plotting the ratio distribution in the genome. Normalise the ratios first 0-1. 

```
x <- ratio_positions$Position
y <- ratio_positions$Ratio

normalized = (y-min(y))/(max(y)-min(y))

g <- ggplot(ratio_positions, aes(x = Position, normalized)) + geom_point(colour="darkblue", shape=21, size = 4) + xlab("Chromosome 4 position (bp)") + ylab("Normalised ratio")
g + theme_bw()
options(scipen=10)
```

--min-freq-for-hom is set to 0.80 by default in VarScan. Maybe change it. 

- I was using bwa-0.7.5a with sampe, error due to the bug. Rerun it. 

-Plot OCF2 chromosome 2 with different k values and focus on the part where the mutation is located (according to the paper). I don't see a clear peak in the area where they found the SNP. However, there is an area with a high ratio from the position 10,000,000 to 20,000,000 bp. Create model genome with this vcf file to see if I can plot the ratios as well. 

#####Next
- See results for OCF2, plot ratios
- Finish bwa sampe!!! 


27/03/15
===

Having problems with bwa sampe, got the following error for BCF2 reads: 

```
[bam_header_read] EOF marker is absent. The input is probably truncated.
[samopen] SAM header is present: 7 sequences.
Parse error at line 18: sequence and quality are inconsistent
```

It might be that the reads are in Sanger-fastq format and in the aln I was using -I (for illumina reads). I'm running it again without this parameter. Also, using bwa 0.7.4 to see if it works properly. 

Run also the same alignment with TAIR9 as reference because it's the one they used in the paper so I can compare results. Leaving it indexing the reference genome. Try to run bwa over the weekend. 

30/03/15
===

bwa fails again showing the Segmentation error. Possible reason: reference genome was not indexed again with the version I was using (0.7.4). Currently running bwa BCF2 with TAIR10 (version 0.7.4 and 0.6.2) after repeating the index files. Also, running it with TAIR9 (version 0.7.4).

Still running OCF2 reads with 0.7.4 (Old) and run again with new index files (0.6.2). 

Try to analysis the part of the alignment where they found the mutation in the paper by focusing on chromosome 3 in the old BCF2 SAM file. For that:

```
 bsub -q TSL-Test128 -o bambam.txt "samtools view -bS BCF2/BCF2.sam > BCF2/BCF2.bam" 
 ```
 (DONE)
 
 For tomorrow:
 
 ```
 bsub -q TSL-Test128 -o bambam.txt "samtools sort BCF2/BCF2.bam"
 bsub -q TSL-Test128 -o bambam.txt "samtools view BCF2.bam chr3 > chr3.bam"
  ```
 Don't know if this is going to work, as the BAM file I had previously was truncated. 
 
#####Next
Fix the problem with the ratio and position csv file in SDM. Don't know why it works with 2 kb genomes and not with 1 Mb ones. 
 
31/03/15
===
- **The mutations they found in the BCF2 paper were also present in my BCF2.vcf file with the exact same allele frequencies. However, I was not able to see them when plotting the SNP density distributions, probably because there are too many background SNPs. I am going to align and varscan the parental line they also sequenced to compare both vcf files and avoid the background SNPs (those that are present in both and therefore cannot be responsible for the mutant phenotype)** Then, the alignment done with bwa 0.7.5a mem was ok, and all the repetitions I'm doing, although useful to check the reproducibility, are not necessary. 

I'm now starting the alignment for the parental reads (BC.bg) in the scratch folder. 

- However, the mutattions they found in OCF2 are not in my vcf file, so that alignment was not correct. This repetation should give new insights. 