16/02/15
===


[New indel identification paper](http://www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/s12859-015-0483-6.pdf)

Create new repository for SDM in order to focus on the method and run the proper test, etc.

Try to use Magnum CI with new the repository. Have to figure out how to use it properly. Error:

			 Could not locate Gemfile
			 
Write Gemfile and Gemfile.lock. Rerun build. After that, same problem with Rakefile for the unit tests. 

New problem: test fails when initialising rinruby 
			
			`popen': No such file or directory - R (Errno::ENOENT)
			
			
17/02/15
===
Improve SDM code, writing new methods for Stuff class (test units needed) and incorporate the distribution plots in the mutation class. Couldn't make it work though. 

18/02/15
===
Suddenly bio-samtool is not working! Can't install the gem again don't know why. Fixed. 

Write new unit tests

Try running build again. It takes too long and it stops after 30 min. 

Try to incorporate the distribution plots in SDM, but they don't appear in the folder. Work on the output directory. 

19/02/15
===
1. Distribution plots succesfully incorporated. Instead of using the whole genome length in the x axis, I am focusing only in the center of the distribution (group of contigs that show a high hm/ht ratio). Add distribution_plots method to class Mutation. 
2. Add new output file mutation.txt that wil have the location of the mutation, the length of the whole group of contigs of interest and the percentage of deviation from actual mutation.
2. Finish all the unit tests and try them all. Now, running build in Magnum-ci
3. Try new changes in cluster with Chr1 y Chr1_A previously created. Great results. Try also with Chr1_C and Chr1_D. It works!

 