9/02/15
===

Method doesn't seem to be working. I don't know how to look for the causal mutation when it is not located in the middle. I've trying to shorten the ratios arrays and the contigs arrays, removing the contigs with lower hm to ht ratios. However, this doesn't work because the SNP positions assigned to the permutation are based on the order. 

The problem is that if we remove the contigs that have a low ratio, there is no possible way to know where in the genome is our peak. But, if we leave them there, as they have the same ratio values, we don't know where they go. 

10/02/15
===

I am going to try to work with divisions again

- As in any de novo sequencing experiment, there are a few tools we can use to create a draft of the correct order in which we can assign our ratios and look for the causal mutation
- Or, if we know that the contigs that are surrounding the causal mutation are correctly ordered, we can maybe look for their location. 


IDEA: when removing the fragments from the permutation, take the same fragments from the correctly order so the comparison is possible. The actual location is not really important.



11/02/15
===
- Prepare material for school visit

12/02/15
===
- School visit
- RubyMine - improve code, suggestions


13/02/15
===
- School visit
- Remot.io - control HTML presentations from phone
- Slack 
- slides.com - [SDM presentation](https://slides.com/pilarcormo/sdm)
- Improve code in SDM, try to develop the idea of removing the same fragments that have low ratio in the permutation from the correct order array. Also, to create the hm and ht lists in permuation I have two ideas:
	1. From the original hm and ht lists created with the model genome, assigned the same positions to the permutation array
	2. Create new SNP postions lists from perm_hm (the whole "ordered" array) and then remove the positions that are in the ends of the distribution (low ratio fragments) 