1/04/15
===

- Use Savant to see quality of the mapping (by using BAM files) in BCF2 alignment and compare hm SNPs in parental and F2. As suggested, if they are present in both, they cannot be involved in the mutation. I'm creating a new vcf file without the common SNPs.

- Code refractoring (change first 2 methods used in Stuff class)

#####Next

- Readjust rest of code after changes we've done 
- Rewrite manage_vcf to eliminate the background SNPs
- Find and use mob reads 
- See [Mutmap](http://www.nature.com/nbt/journal/vaop/ncurrent/full/nbt.3188.html)

7/04/15
===
- The alignment for OCF2 failed after aln step, I'm repeating it (using bwa 0.6.2), hopefully it will be done by tomorrow. 
- Rewrite manage_vcf to eliminate the background SNPs. Plot the SNP densities for the remaining interesting mutations. The mutations in chromosome 3 they reported remained in the new vcf file, although the distribution is not smooth enough for us to use it with SDM. As for the chromosome 4, as expected, the peak I observed was due to background SNPs (also present in the parental line) so they're not interesting. 

8/04/15
===

- OC alignment looks ok in Savant, mapping quality seems generally ok and I could even identify some homozygous SNPs in the area where they found the mutation in the paper so I'm doing parental filtering for OCF2
- Create new model genome for the filtered SNPs from BCF2 in chromosome 3. Calculate and plot ratios. They look more accurate than before, although a clear hm distribution was not observed. 
- Work on meeting presentation 
- SDM not working properly after refractory. 

9/04/15
===
- SDM is fixed. Had to go back to some of the previous methods in Stuff, as the new thing was not doing the same. 
- Obtained output vcf file  after parental filtering for OCF2 reads. In chromosome 2 there is a clear peak in the area where they identified the mutation. 
- Create new model genomes for chromosome 3 (BCF2) and chromosome 2 (OCF2) with different contig sizes. As I am calculating the ratio by contig, changing the number of contigs will alter the ratio distribution. I am using 1, 10 and 100 kb contig sizes. 
- After lab meeting, decided to calculate ratios in different ways to compare the distributions obtained. Normally, I am adding 1 to the number of hm SNPs in the numerator and to the number of ht in the denominator to avoid dividing 0 or by 0. Maybe this is altering the amplitude of the density distribution when plotting the ratios, so I am going to try adding 0.1 and 0.01 to see if it makes any different. 
- Create a single multiplot with all the individual ratio plots calculated in the different ways I described above. I create 1 multiplot per contig size. 
- Waiting for 1 kb genomes to be done. 

10/04/15 and 11/04/15
===

- Compare different ways of obtaining the ratios and the effect of different contig sizes on the ratio. 
- Download and convert to fastq reads from different previous experiments.
