13/04/15
===

- Change ratios dividing by length of the fragment in which the ratio is calculated. 
- Run alignment and variant calling for [sup1, sup2 reads from Arabidopsis Wassilewskija (Ws) background](http://pcp.oxfordjournals.org/content/52/4/716.long). These are single-end reads. Use bwa mem.
- Parental filtering for sup1 and sup2. In this case, remove background SNPs from ColT (Col-Tasaka) and from the non-reference Ws accession.

####Next
- See SNP distributions

14/04/15
===

- See SNP distributions for sup1 and sup2 after parental filtering. The densities look very promising, the peaks are in the areas were the identified the candidate mutations in chr1 and chr4 while the homozygous SNP density in the other chromosomes in very low. I'm going to work on this distributions further. 

- Work on NGS reads so far:

---------


Mapping population datasets can be classified as mutant either Outcrossed to a distant mapping parent or Backcrossed to Parent

######Outcrossed datasets:

**Arabidopsis NGM mapping (Austin et al 2011) (Col-0 x Ler-0)
(/usr/users/sl/data/reads/plants/arabidopsis/ngm_austin_etal2011)**

~~Arabidopsis Uni-D transgene suppressors (Ws-0 x Col-0)
(/usr/users/sl/morenop/Aw_sup_Uchida2011)~~

~~Arabidopsis FT transgene suppressors (Col-0 x Ler-0)
(/usr/users/sl/morenop/ocf2_Galvao2012)~~

######Backcrossed datasets:

Arabidopsis bak1-5 and mob mutants
(/usr/users/sl/data/reads/plants/arabidopsis/bak1_5)
(/usr/users/sl/data/reads/plants/arabidopsis/mobmutants). 6 mutants: mob2-5, mob22-4, mob31-1, mob60-8, mob52-2 and mob41-1

~~Arabidopsis mir159a EMS to find leaf hyponasty mutants
()/usr/users/sl/morenop/bcf2_Allen2013)~~

Arabis alpina pep1 mutant backcrossed to 
Pajares accession (wild type)
/usr/users/sl/data/reads/plants/arabis_alpina/ena_erp002265
in this study we have the mutant and backcross data (other side of the data sets)
also we have a second allelic mutant ( like one of the mob mutants)
could be used to test only homozygous distributions to generate the peak


------
- NGM reads (Austin):


They found mutations in 3 different mutant lines (mur11, fph1, fph2) 

*Although 99 832 SNPs are shared among all three mutants, these were not filtered out during the analysis, in order to maintain a completely de novo prediction.* 

I have started with the aligment for fph1, these are short reads (38 bp) so bwa mem is not the appropiate method to use (it is defined for >70 bp reads) so I am using bwa aln + sampe again to see if it works. 


15/04/15 and 16/04/15
===

- Code refractory. Write functions in Stuff in a more generic way (define in general and use separately for hm and ht SNPs).
- Run SDM with Ws reads.
- Align mur reads from Austin (2011) using bwa mem even if the reads are short to see if it works. Running pileup at this point. 
- Align fph1 reads from Austin (2011) using bwa aln + sampe. Still in sampe
- Write R code for qqplot to see if the hm SNP density in Ws reads follows a normal distribution. Instead of using a general qqnorm, I am using qqplot defining the second dataset as a normal. Tried qqplot and stat_qq from ggplot2 but chose to use the first one. Script is called [qqplot.R](https://github.com/pilarcormo/SNP_distribution_method/blob/master/qqplot.R). Specially in chromosome 4, the disitribution is almost normal (r2 close to 1) while this correlation is not that clear in chromosome 1 (r2 around 0.8).  
