21/04/15
===

- Running alignments for m mutants (bwa mem, TAIR10 as reference genome). Used reads from clean_data, skip trimming step. 
- Still running fph1 sampe. 
- Use mur vcf output (done with bwa mem even though the reads were short) to see the SNP distribution. There are not enough hm SNPs probably due to the reads that were not considered in the analysis.
- qqplot for OCF2 chromosome 2 after parental filtering. Take only the hm SNPs after the centromere (8 MB on). The correlation is very good. Write results (qqplots)

22/04/15
===

- The m reads I am using come from independent mutants (independent pools in M2 generation after EMS mutagenesis of the M0 seeds). They carry different mutations. Finish alignment and obtain vcf files. Filter them using parent (background) and start to look for distributions

- fph1 sampe step is done in samples 1-6, waiting for 7 to merge the bam files (already sorted)
- Rewrite unit tests for Stuff. 


23/04/15
===
- Obtain distributions for the m mutants
- Create new model genomes based on the SNP density in the m mutants and plot the ratios. 
- Write scprit to remove the SNPs in the distributions that are due to the centromere. 

#####Centromere positions

-  1: 15086545
-  2: 3608429
-  3: 14209452
-  4: 3956521
-  5: 11725524

###Next
- Analyse the qqplots obtained after removing the centromere and study the kurtosis. 

27/04/15
===

- Write [kurtosis.md](https://github.com/pilarcormo/SNP_distribution_method/blob/master/Results/kurtosis.md)
- Alignment for fph1 (Austin, 2011) is done, start analysing the distribution. The mutation should be on the end of chromosome 1 but I don't see anything clear. I've tried removing more 1 Mb at each side of the centromere to see since there are many SNPs in that area. I've tried some filtering using Ler reads (mapping line) although they didn't use any on the paper, so I am going to try with the original vcf as well. 
- Run new alignment for mur11 using aln + sampe.
- Try to look for the causal mutation in the m mutants that haven't been described yet (A, D, E)

28/04/15
===

- Find out the expected mutations in the m mutants. 
- Create new model genomes after getting rid of the centromeres. 100 kb contigs are used. 

```
A_nocen_chr2_100kb 100000 2 new_snps/A_2"
B_nocen_chr2_100kb 100000 5 new_snps/B_5"
E_nocen_chr2_100kb 100000 2 new_snps/E_2"
F_nocen_chr2_100kb 100000 1 new_snps/F_1"
ocf2_nocen_chr2_100kb 100000 2 new_snps/ocf2"
bsup1_nocen_chr1_100kb 100000 1 new_snps/sup1_1"
sup1_nocen_chr4_100kb 100000 1 new_snps/sup1_4"
```

29/04/15
===
- Transform the ratios in densities to plot them. Build new plots.
- Code refactory. Focus on SDM and remove_centromere

30/04/15
===
- Create new method in Stuff to estimate the global positions in the chromosome after sorting the contigs using SDM. To do that, I take into account the length of each contig that goes before a given one, and I add this value to the SNP positions in the given fragment. Example:

Fragment 1 have 3 hm SNPs in 3 different positions and fragment 2 have 2 SNPs. ```
positions_by_fragment = {frag1 => [1, 2, 10], frag2 => [3, 5]}
lengths = {frag1 => 100, frag2 => 68}
```

Estimation of the global positions:
```
global_positions = {frag1 => [1, 2, 10], frag2 => [103, 105]}```

The aim is to plot a QQplot that shows the correlation between the SNP distribution in the sorted contigs and the original SNP distribution. I have done this with the no_centromere chromosome that I got on Tuesday.

31/04/15
===
- Rinruby. Write qqplot and densities in rinruby to change the outputs obtained after running SDM, ideally to start thinking of removing the 'comparison to the reference' step. Having problems with assign. Unsupported data type on Ruby's end (RuntimeError)
- D bwa alignment is still running. 


####Next

- Focus on a correction step to improve the correlation 
- Look for real contigs
- Comment code
- Write  results to [qqplot.md](https://github.com/pilarcormo/SNP_distribution_method/blob/master/Results/qqplot.md).
- Write new unit tests

