01/06/15 - 08/05/15
===

- Write and proof-read [preprint](https://github.com/pilarcormo/Preprint)
- Write tables, make figures
- Learn how to used pandoc and latex to put all the parts in pdf together. To format, I'm going to use [preamble.tex](https://github.com/pilarcormo/Preprint/blob/master/preamble.tex) and the following command:

```pandoc --latex-engine=xelatex -H preamble.tex -V fontsize=12pt -V documentclass:article -V papersize:a4paper -V classoption:openright Tables.md -o "tables.pdf"
```

- Improve output given by SDM. Now it gives the SNP positions in the contigs chosen as candidates. This is possible in this case because we know the correct order, but when using SDM without a reference genome, we won't know the correct positions. However, it was useful in this case to check accuracy.

- Write unit tests for SDM 
- Delete old and messy output folders in arabidopsis_datasets/No_centromere and create missing ones. With the new plots now we should have /SDM_off when the filtering step is off (no threshold) and /SDM_on when the filtering step is on. In some cases Ratio0_1 and Ratio1_1 refers to the same thing but I have left them because they have the old-maybe-useful plots. 
- Complete [Readme](https://github.com/pilarcormo/SNP_distribution_method/blob/master/README.md) in SDM to explain how to run all the scripts and the expected outputs. 


09/06/15
===

- Perform filtering steps (- Ler background SNPs, - centromere) and build model genome with mur reads from Austin et al 2011. The distribution looks great and the results from SDM are good too, but some of the candidate SNPs they idenfied are not present in my original vcf file from VarScan. Reason: I used bwa-mem for the short read alignment, so probably it was not really precise as a minimum lenght of 70 bp is recommended for bwa-mem. Don't know if it's worth it to repeat the whole alignment, as I think I have enough examples already.

- Use Spades to build contigs with the reads from [*Arabis alpina*](http://www.nature.com/nbt/journal/v31/n4/full/nbt.2515.html). As a test, I used also with OCF2 reads to see how the software works and check contig size, output...

- *A. alpina* pipeline:


``bsub -q TSL-Test128 -o alpina_trimming.txt "java -jar Trimmomatic-0.33/trimmomatic-0.33.jar PE arabis_alpina/ena_erp002265/bc2f2_pep1-1/A1_ATCACG_L002_R1.fq arabis_alpina/ena_erp002265/bc2f2_pep1-1/A1_ATCACG_L002_R2.fq A1_output_R1.fq A1_output_unpaired_R1.fq A1_output_R2.fq A1_output_unpaired_R2.fq SLIDINGWINDOW:4:20 MINLEN:70"``

``bsub -q TSL-Test256 -o contig.txt "spades.py --pe1-1 arabis_alpina/ena_erp002265/bc2f2_pep1-1/A1_output_R1.fq --pe1-2 arabis_alpina/ena_erp002265/bc2f2_pep1-1/A1_output_R2.fq -o contig_alpina"``


10/06/15
===
- Instead of running assemblies, I've been looking for already assembled genomes to use their contigs.

- I am going to use the already assembled chromosomes form A. alpina to align the reads.

- The idea for a non-sequenced organism would be to build contigs with the parental and the mutant reads to look for polymorphisms between both sets of reads.


11/06/15
===

For sequencing the pep1-1 mutant a segregating population was created after two backcrosses to the accession Pajares **(BC2F2)**. For sequencing the fde1 mutant a segregating population was created after one backcross to the accession Pajares **(BC1F2)**. For both mutants the
segregating populations consisted of 500 plants. Each A. alpina sample was loaded into one lane of the sequencing flowcell, with the exception of fde1 BC1F2, for which we sequenced two lanes. (sup info from [NIKS](http://www.nature.com/nbt/journal/v31/n4/full/nbt.2515.html))

Got reads from bc1f2 that were missing. To do the alignments I am going to use the chromosomes available for Arabis alpina. Ideally, we would assemble both sets of data into contigs and we will compare them to identify differences. I am going to try that too by using the contigs from mutant x as refenrece for mutant y reads. 


12/06/15
===

- Alignment to [Arabis alpina reference](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/data/view/GCA_000612745) after quality filtering
	- bc1f2 - A2 (bc1_1)
	- bc2f2 - A1
- Spades for assembly for bc1 and bc2
	- bc1f2 - A2 (bc1_1) and 396 (bc1_2) together, same assembly
	- bc2f2 - A1





