15/06/15
===

- bc2f2_assembly is done. 
- bwa index contigs.fasta to use as a reference for the reads from bc1f2
- Align bc1f2 clean reads  to bc2f2 contigs:

```
desc "Align using bwa"
task :bwa  do
	sh 'bwa mem bc2f2_assembly/contigs.fasta bc1f2_1_output_R1.fq bc1f2_1_output_R2.fq > contigs_bc1f2.sam'
end
desc "Convert sam to bam file"
task :bam => ["bwa"] do
	sh 'samtools view -bS contigs_bc1f2.sam | samtools sort -m 30000000000 - contigs_bc1f2_sorted'
end
desc "Write pileup file"
task :pileup => ["bam"] do
	sh 'samtools mpileup -B -f arabis_alpina.fasta contigs_bc1f2_sorted.bam > contigs_bc1f2.pileup'
end
desc "run VarScan"
task :varscan  => ["pileup"] do 
	sh 'java -jar VarScan.v2.3.7.jar mpileup2snp contigs_bc1f2.pileup --output-vcf 1 > contigs_bc1f2.vcf'
end
```

- create SNP_distribution_method_real to take real contigs (already shuffled, we won't create a model genome this time). Write contigs.rb to take lengths from id in each contig. 

- Move reads and alignments from Arabidopsis screens to data folder 

/tsl/data/reads/plants/arabidopsis/Aw_sup_Uchida2011
/tsl/data/reads/plants/arabidopsis/bcf2_Allen2013
/tsl/data/reads/plants/arabidopsis/ocf2_Galvao2012

16/06/15
===
- I just obtained the vcf files for bc2f2 and bc1f1 using the reference genome available. I have made changes in manage_vcf.rb to make it useful for the id specificication (chrom) in these vcf files. Obtain individual vcf files per each chromosome and text files for the hom and het SNPs. I will use each mutant files as filtering for the other one (as I did with the parental vcf before). 
- bc1f2_assembly failed. I'm running it again. 
- contigs_bc1f2 -> usual SNP pipeline using contigs from bc2f2 as reference in bwa. The reads form bc1f2 ara aligned to it. VCF file obtained from that has the contig id in #chrom.  

NODE_780_length_25330_cov_13.4738_ID_1581     |  4742   | .   |    A   |    T    |   .   |    PASS    |ADP=56;WT=0;HET=0;HOM=1;NC=0  |  GT:GQ:SDP:DP:RD:AD:FREQ:PVAL:RBQ:ABQ:RDF:RDR:ADF:ADR  |  1/1:255:56:56:0:56:100%:2.5602E-33:0:36:0:0:38:18 |

Both VCF files from both mutants have ~7000 SNPs. After filtering, I got ~3000 in chromosome 1. 

17-19/06/15
===

- Jitter plots for 1-15 and 30 Mb genomes deviations (fig 1). May change colours. 
- Figure 3 (ratios). Change the 0.5, 1, 2 scale. Use instead a % of the maximum ratio in all the cases. Change legend (no hypothetical ratio but SDM ratio). With chr1_E_1
	- Ratio_100_1.2
	- Ratio_50_1.2
	- Ratio_10_1.2
	- Ratio_4_1.2		

- Repeat qqplots
- Inkscape to build final figures
- Give up on the assemblies.

####Next 
- Analyse several assembly projects currently available and check contigs sizes 
- Rewrite methods so they can be reproduced. Specify files, scripts and command lines used. 
- Change results after comments 