22/06/15
===

From NCBI I selected all plant genome assemblies at contig level from 2013 until now. [contigs.md](https://github.com/pilarcormo/SNP_distribution_method/blob/master/Contigs/contigs.md)

Characteristics: 

- full genome representation 
- genome coverage over 1x
- sequencing technology
- contig N50 length. 

I got 30 assemblies in plants. From those, 15 used Illumina HiSeq, so this is the preferred technology. To analyse the contig size distribution, I divide the genome length by the number of contigs to get an average contig size. I also used the N50 contig length. 

Write and run [contigs.R]()

Use Inkscape to redo figures for preprint. 


23/06/15
===

- Statistics: number of assemblies for each technology, N50 contig size distribution (median, mean, quartiles). Influence of genome coverage. Plots are in [Contigs](https://github.com/pilarcormo/SNP_distribution_method/tree/master/Contigs).

24/06/15
===
-  Specify threshold value as argument instead of using always max.ratio/4. Now I use max.ratio divided by 100, 50, 10 and 5.

-  Contig size analysis. Try plotting probabilities of contig sizes for each genome length. Not sure how. 

25-26/06/15
===
- Table with all the studies 
- Workflow for SDM, workflows in methods instead of results. 
- Comments on SDM 

- I have change the number to be provided as an argument for the threshold. Now:
	- 1 -> threshold = 1% of the maximum ratio. Divide by 100 
	- 5 -> threshold = 5% of the maximum ratio. Divide by 50
	- 10 -> threshold = 10% of the maximum ratio. Divide by 10
	- 20 -> threshold = 20% of the maximum ratio. Divide by 5
- Ratio results for No_centromere genomes. 10% works great for all the studies expect for sup#1. Suggest 5% for out-crosses	
- Work on supplementary methods (Code.md)
- Add two tables to Tables.md 


29-30/06/15
===

- Improve methods for preprint. I need to specify scripts and command lines to reproduce everything. I started looking at the first figure (jitter plot showing no significance deviation for differet genome sizes and contig lengths). I want to create specific folders in the repo for each part of the project (for example, I've changed SDM for the real genomes, but I want a copy of the old version I used to obtain these results so they can be reproduced). However, when I looked at the 1-15Mb genomes, the info.txt is wrong for the SNP distribution so I have to repeat some model genomes and I plan to ran SDM again with them. I will calculate the deviations again to repeat the jitter plot. Hope there is no a substantial difference. For the 30Mb genomes, 
	- Remake 5Mb and 5Mb_i, 5Mb_A_i, 7Mb_i, 7Mb_A_i (i= 1..5)
- I have created SNP_distribution_method/Small_genomes to work on all this with the old version of SDM and the scripts used with the model genomes. 
- Make directory analyse_effect_ratio to analyse the effect of the pre-filtering step based on the hom/het ratio with the new values (1, 5, 10, 20). Use Chr1_C (right) and Chr1_E (left): 

	- Ratio_100_1
	- Ratio_50_1
	- Ratio_10_1
	- Ratio_5_1	
